As a security analyst, you'll need to
be familiar both with databases and
the tools used to access them.
Now that we know the basics of databases,
let's focus on an important tool
used to work with them, SQL, and
learn more about how analysts
like yourself might utilize it.
SQL, or as it's also pronounced, S-Q-L,
stands for Structured Query Language.
SQL is a programming language used
to create, interact with, and
request information from a database.
Before learning more about SQL,
we need to define what query means.
A query is a request for data from a
database table or a combination of tables.
Nearly all relational databases rely
on some version of SQL to query data.
The different versions of SQL only have
slight differences in their structure,
like where to place quotation marks.
Whatever variety of SQL you use,
you'll find it to be a very important
tool in your work as a security analyst.
First, let's discuss how SQL
can help you retrieve logs.
A log is a record of events that occur
within an organization's systems.
As a security analyst, you might be tasked
with reviewing logs for various reasons.
For example, some logs might contain
details on machines used in a company,
and as an analyst,
you would need to find those machines
that weren't configured properly.
Other logs might describe the visitors
to your website or web app and
the tasks they perform.
In that case,
you might be looking for unusual patterns
that may point to malicious activity.
Security logs are often very large and
hard to process.
There are millions of data points, and
it's very time consuming
to find what you need.
But this is where SQL comes in! It can
search through millions of data points to
extract relevant rows of data using
one query that takes seconds to run.
That's pretty useful, right?
SQL is also a very common language
used for basic data analytics,
another set of skills that will set
you apart as a security analyst.
As a security analyst, you can use
SQL's filtering to find data to support
security-related decisions and
analyze when things may go wrong.
For instance,
you can identify what machines
haven't received the latest patch.
This is important because patches are
updates that help secure against attacks.
As another example,
you can use SQL to determine the best time
to update a machine based
on when it's least used.
Now that we know why
SQL is important to us,
we're going to start making basic
queries to a sample database!
This is definitely exciting, and
I'll meet you in the next video.